<!--t Online or Offline Writing t-->
<!--d The built-in editor found in the admin panel, also provides you the ability to write to Markdown files offline by uploading them (see naming d-->

Like traditional static pages, even though HTMLy is a dynamic PHP application, most important metadata such as username, category, type, tags, publication date, and slug are in the folder name and filename. 

If you use the dashboard to write your posts, the folder structure and filenames will be set by the dashboard automatically.

The following is an example of a folder and file structure from HTMLy:

<pre><code>content/my-username/blog/my-category/post/2024-01-10-15-35-45_tag1,tag2_my-post-slug.md
</code></pre>

Here's the explanation:

* `my-username` is the username.
* `my-category` is the content category.
* `post` is the content type. Available content type `post`, `video`, `audio`, `link`, `quote`.
* `2024-01-10-15-35-45` is the published date. The date format is `Y-m-d-H-i-s`
* `tag1,tag2` are the tags, separated by commas
* `my-post-slug` is the URL

**Note:** the filename metadata (post date, tags, slug) separated by an underscore.

With a structure like above, the post can now be visited even though it's just a folder structure and filename.

To claim this content or log in to dashboard, simply create `my-username.ini` in the `config/users/` folder (see `username.ini.example`).

<pre><code>;Password
password = yourpassword

;Encryption: Set to clear, and later it will changed to password_hash automatically during login
encryption = clear

;Role
role = admin
</code></pre>
 

And to add information about the author, create `author.md` in `content/my-username/`, example:

<pre><code>&lt;!--t My Cool Name t--&gt;

Just another HTMLy user
</code></pre>

Information about `my-category` can be added by creating `my-category.md` inside the `content/data/category/` folder.

<pre><code>&lt;!--t My category title t--&gt;
&lt;!--d My category meta description d--&gt;

This is my category info etc.
</code></pre>

**Note:** The default category is `Uncategorized` with slug `uncategorized` and you do not need to creating it inside `content/data/category/` folder.

**Note:** Delete the `page` folder inside the `cache` folder to clear the html page cache served to visitors.

**Important:** Every time new content added (post, pages, category), or you make changes that change the folder structure or filenames, simply delete the `index` and `widget` folder inside `cache` folder so that the changes detected by HTMLy. 

**Post Views Limitations:** HTMLy using the post/page slug for the post/page views counter ID. So if you edit a post/page slug without using the dashboard, then you must edit `views.json` in the `content/data/` folder manually to update to the correct slug.

Static pages
------------

For static pages, use the following format:

<pre><code>content/static/about.md
</code></pre>

In the example above, the `about.md` creates the URL: `www.yourblog.com/about`

Thus, if you write/create files locally, you must name the .md file in the format above.

For static subpages, use the following format:

<pre><code>content/static/about/me.md
</code></pre>

This will create the URL: `www.yourblog.com/about/me`

An example pages/subpages content looks like:

<pre><code>&lt;!--t My page title t--&gt;
&lt;!--d My page meta description d--&gt;

This is my page info etc.
</code></pre>

**Page ordering**

To sort the pages, you just need to add integer value followed by a period.

<pre><code>content/static/01.contact.md
content/static/02.about.md
</code></pre>

For static subpages:

<pre><code>content/static/01.contact/01.us.md
content/static/01.contact/02.me.md
</code></pre>

<h2>Content Tags</h2>

<p>If you are writing offline, you need specify the content tags below:</p>

<p><strong>Title</strong></p>

<pre><code>&lt;!--t Title t--&gt;
</code></pre>

<p><strong>Meta description</strong></p>

<pre><code>&lt;!--d The meta description d--&gt;
</code></pre>

<p><strong>Tags</strong></p>

<p>This is just the tags display and for the slug is in the filename.</p>

<pre><code>&lt;!--tag Tag1,Tag2 tag--&gt;
</code></pre>

<p><strong>Featured image</strong></p>

<p>Post with featured image.</p>

<pre><code>&lt;!--image http://www.example.com/image-url/image.jpg image--&gt;
</code></pre>

<p><strong>Featured youtube video</strong></p>

<p>Post with featured youtube video.</p>

<pre><code>&lt;!--video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xxxxxxx video--&gt;
</code></pre>

<p><strong>Featured soundcloud audio</strong></p>

<p>Post with featured soundcloud audio.</p>

<pre><code>&lt;!--audio https://soundcloud.com/xxxx/audio-url audio--&gt;
</code></pre>

<p><strong>Featured link</strong></p>

<p>Post with featured link.</p>

<pre><code>&lt;!--link https://github.com/danpros/htmly link--&gt;
</code></pre>

<p><strong>Featured quote</strong></p>

<p>Post with featured quote.</p>

<pre><code>&lt;!--quote Premature Optimization is The Root of All Evil quote--&gt;
</code></pre>

<p><strong>Example</strong></p>

<p>Example of how your post would look like:</p>

<pre><code>&lt;!--t Here is the post title t--&gt;
&lt;!--d The meta description d--&gt;
&lt;!--tag Tag1,Tag2 tag--&gt;
&lt;!--video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xxxxxxx video--&gt;

Paragraph 1

Paragraph 2 etc.
</code></pre>